if you have no idea  what the title of this video is about  i promise you  it's interesting  if you do have some idea what the title  of this video is about  i promise you  this is going to be much more  interesting than you think  i i have regular viewers on this channel  who have no idea who tommy talarico is  or why i would make a video talking  about him who don't know what the word  in television means nor specifically the  intellivision amiko and i probably also  have a few hundred regular viewers who  have long since grown tired of this  topic and who think they already know  everything i have to say on the matter  give me a chance  i actually think this raises a lot of  really interesting questions that are  ultimately kind of political  in nature  one of the interesting things about  business one of the interesting things  about  an enterprise  is that it brings together people of  totally different talents  and totally different personality types  now  tommy talarico  is a musician  he is the type of person who loves  getting on stage in front of a cheering  crowd one of the first things he said to  me when he started talking to me  was  that he saw that i was learning chinese  i think also that i was teaching chinese  and he said you know how much he loved  being in china and how he'll remember  for the rest of his life the enthusiasm  of the crowds as he played the guitar  live on a stage in china that's a  particular  type of guy it's a particular type of  talent  it's a particular type of personality  that comes with it and then certain  types of attitudes  that are self-reinforcing  over time being the leader of the band  so to speak being the front man behind  the microphone standing in front of the  crowd so on and so forth now think about  the personality type  for a coder  for a career  computer programmer  maybe someone who's not narrowly  devoted to the video game industry  think about what a different personality  type that is what a different way of  thinking a different way of working  what different way of living right  different way of handling conflict  and these are not the only personality  types you've got to bring together a  coder  is not an artist  a graphic artist  a cartoonist  so there are all these different types  of talents  that have been brought together  to work as part of one enterprise  have to be brought together as moving  cogs if you like  serving some kind of greater whole  working  towards one grand  plan  i remember talking about this with my  mother  she said that the most fundamental  challenge  of working in the museum industry  was bringing together  radically different personality types  with radically different political  tendencies  herself included she was someone with  radical political tendencies in case you  didn't know uh in the service of this  greater ideal  that probably  none of them  fully understand so let's say you've got  an art gallery  it may be founded by and it may be led  by the ceo maybe a multi-millionaire  whose only interest his whole life has  been making millions of dollars that's  like in a sense that's what he's got a  talent for  it's a self-reinforcing set of behaviors  he used to being an executive someone  who made millions of dollars millions of  dollars by millions of dollars and then  at some point he thinks  art collecting  and his reason for doing that may be to  get a tax write-off it may be to get  certain kinds of benefits that come with  taking a portion of your fortune and  putting it into the arts putting into  education now  he finds himself  at the head of a multi-million dollar  art gallery and there's some very  different types of people involved there  are some people  who are just there because they like  doing public education  and outreach there are some people who  are there because it's their mission in  life  to help educate  underprivileged urban youth  about modern art that's what motivates  them that's they're thinking about and  they have to sit at a boardroom table  with this  multi-millionaire art collection then  there's someone else at that table  who's an historian  and there's someone else at that table  who's just dealing with the chemistry  of the paintings the organic chemistry  of the paint and how the colors fade and  how to restore them how to deal with how  to deal with technical issues like this  i remember uh with one museum  problems had to do with having a  carpenter you needed to have a carpenter  on site to make small wooden objects so  you have like a precious vods you have  to put it on a piece of wood that's  shaped just right  you have to carve a piece of wood so  that you have the vods at the right  angle and it won't move and even if  there's an earthquake it won't move  around this kind of thing you have a  carpenter at the table too you have  these very very different people  brought together  but one kind of enterprise there's a  theory right now about the  failure of tommy talarico's project the  intellivision of mikko there's a theory  that it was an intentional scam  along  there's a more specific theory  that he was looking for he was trying to  attract a certain kind of investor he  was trying to create all this hype  and then attract this kind of investor  and then sell off the enterprise  he'd created to the highest bidder to  assume that comes in now if we were  talking about anyone else anyone other  than tommy talarico i i would think it  was actually a good theory you know like  looking at the facts on the surface  seems like a good theory okay so this is  what this person had in mind and by the  way that's not necessarily immoral you  can start up a new company with the  intention of selling it off for someone  else to  someone else to take over  i have a different theory however  i think  that when you work as a musician  in the way tommy talarico did  you get used to creating hype  and then recruiting  a team of the right people  putting together a band  you have the right talent  in the right place  at the right time  you create a lot of hype for it  and then the magic just happens  you don't have to deal with a whole lot  of technical details  you don't have to have a plan you don't  think in terms of having institution  right  you know  you bring together the right people in  one place at one time maybe you throw  out some money on the table maybe not  even that  and then it just happens you sort out  the details  later if you bring together the right  musicians in the booth so to speak  you don't even need to have a  composition  you can just have a vague idea  of what the song is you want to the  the way it's going to go right and you  bring together i talked to johnny del  rio i interviewed him this is the way he  talks about hardware this is the way he  talks about software you say to him  because i did i challenged him in the  interview i challenge you say well this  isn't going to work for this reason or  you know you tell me how are you going  to make it work given that this isn't  worth this reason and he says back to  you  i'm working with this person  they have 30 years of experience  i'm working with that person they have  20 years of experience and he'd say of  himself i forget what he said 40 years  of experience  legitimately he has something like that  35 years experience whatever it is now  you know and so when you add it together  this is so many hundred years of  experience and this person has this  background this person is that  this is an artist this is a creative art  this is specifically a musician  talking about putting together a band  and this is just the way you'd hype up a  gig right  like all i got to do is rent the stage  and i'm going to have this guy on guitar  and this kind of drums and it's going to  be great i've read detailed descriptions  this is an old old 1950s um  african-american rock musician and he  was still doing gigs in the 1980s and he  wouldn't even tell the musicians what  songs they were going to play he was  completely used to showing up  and like the minute before  five seconds before they started shout  out to the band song like you know the  expectation is you already know all the  songs everyone knows and there's an  improvised element to it and everybody  involved has 30 years of experience 40  years experience whatever it is right  that those kinds of musicians though  that kind of  that kind of talent well you know you  know  hashtag spoilers  the computer hardware industry doesn't  work that way  you know the computer  software industry  doesn't work that way you can't just say  we'll sort out all the technical details  later come on guys come on this is going  to be great right  and  you absolutely cannot  build up hype  that then  the technical details in terms of  hardware and software you know  you won't be able to satisfy you won't  be able to to follow through  so  some of you in my audience you've never  heard any of these names before i say  stick with me i think this is a really  interesting i wouldn't be making this  video if i didn't think this were  interesting today in 2022 if i didn't  think this were interesting enough that  i could come back and watch the video  myself  five years from now when i will have  forgotten all these all these details  right now i felt about it at the time  or what have you i really do think it's  worth talking about it's worth thinking  about it's worth  reflecting on and if i didn't  i wouldn't waste your time i wouldn't  press the start button right  there was a console in the past called  the ouya  o u y a  everyone says it was a failure  it sold  200 000  units  i'm writing a book right now  am i going to call that book a failure  if i sell 200 000 units  it would be the greatest success of my  life  if i ever sold 200 000 of anything right  whether it's an album or a book or a vhs  cassette and i'm dating myself whatever  you know if i make a movie and it's you  sell 200 000 copies of this movie and  whatever format exists in the 21st  century  um admittedly i have way more than 200  000 downloads here on youtube admittedly  i'm past coming up with six million now  i'm way past five nine but anyway  and yeah sure it's a great success too  200 000  sold  and people say it's a failure  why  because the hype  was so much greater  than what they delivered the promise  was out of proportion to the actual  product and so this isn't just about  hardware  this isn't just about software  this isn't just about writing a book  about like authorship or art this even  applies to politics guys  a lot of people have this same mentality  musicians  it's endemic to the world of performing  arts it's endemic to music we go around  and create hype and tell everyone man  you gotta come to this concert we rented  a huge hall there's gonna be 50 000  people there it's going to be awesome  man well only 5 000 people should  musicians do this all the time it's in  american  legal parliaments it's puffery  right the the historical term is puffing  most people today say puffery  in american law  it is legal  to lie  in order to sell a ticket or in order to  sell a product  as long as your lies  fall within the remit of  puffing  i wish i was making this up i have to  grab degree of political science i'm  supposed to know these things you're  allowed to tell someone  this is going to be the greatest concert  of all time it's going to change your  life forever there's a whole range of  lies you're allowed to tell  because that's  puffery that's puffing and then  at some point you cross the line  right  and you're telling lies  you're not allowed to tell anymore and  it's  especially if you're a musician  right so what what exactly did he  promise sorry this is all spontaneous  that's how i prefer videos to be when i  watch it myself so this is not quite as  strictly logically ordered as it might  be if we scripted this out  you tell me was it four years ago last  time i had a scripted video so  five years ago  um  what exactly  did tommy talarico claim  about his relationship to the creator of  toe jam and earl  classic sega genesis game  toe gemini did you did you hear  tommy talarico promised  that he was going to make a sequel to  toe jam and earl and that it would be  exclusive to his  console i think that's what i heard  in my interview with him and on i'm  i'm pretty sure  that's what he said but maybe go back  and try to see  exactly what he said what did what did  tommy talarico say  about his relationship with with sesame  street  with crayola with uh uh the the  foundation that owns the rights to  cornhole right a lot of promises  was it just puffery or were those  specific tangible definite promises  software was going to come out now again  if you guys don't know and i said this  to tommy and it's it's obvious but let's  spell it out  just that  one  title  toe jammin earl that is a system seller  okay  middle-aged men will pay any amount of  money  for a new system with a new game that's  called toe jam neuro all right that's  that's all the hype you need you don't  need to hype it up any more than that  and you know yet another huge name  he claimed  he was making  the next game in the series of earthworm  gym so earthworm gym number four all  right a lot of middle-aged men some  middle-aged women  right who will pay any price for that  now in explaining this phenomenon  i am not excusing  the phenomenon  um  [Music]  ten years ago  if someone said to you there's a new  company  sort of starting up now  and they are gonna make pacman arcade  cabinets  the smallest ones are two hundred  dollars  bigger ones  four hundred dollars five hundred  dollars some luxury ones six hundred  dollars  yeah yeah yeah yeah people are going to  pay  people going to pay 200 just for pac-man  people are going to pay 400 600 just for  pac-man oh yeah and then when we're done  with pac-man we're going to get into  more obscure  arcade games we're going to do tron  we're going to do tempest  and there are all these people and  they'll pay like six hundred dollars  just to play  tron or tempest games most people they  don't remember but yeah and pac-man it's  a huge market  okay  any of us right now can sit here and say  that's not rational  but in the world of economics  and the world of politics  we partly deal  with things that are rational and we  partly deal with things that are  irrational but they're actual  it doesn't matter what the [ __ ] you  think  it is an empirical fact that people are  lining up to spend two hundred dollars  four hundred dollars six hundred dollars  for an arcade box that plays pac-man  it's now a it's proven okay arcade one  up  huge success story  the ii arcade a direct competitor huge  success story all right and even though  it might seem like it's on a lower level  of cost it's the same kind of absurdity  all right the evercade right evercate is  a handheld it's not one of these big  clunky things but any of these cases  guess what guess what game comes with  the ever k  pac-man  okay  and by the way  none of these are arcade perfect pac-man  none of them  none of them are that good they're  actually not all right it's crazy but  it's but it's true if you're into the  minor differences between different  versions of pac-man and you're really  paying attention  um  you could add up  how much money i've spent on pacman in  the last two years  and each purchase is really cheap i got  one copy of pac-man for five dollars  uh there's one i got for three dollars  there's one i got for about ten dollars  with shipping and handling you know i  own a bunch of different copies of  pac-man uh sorry i mean i'm not not  super precisely here but let's say let's  say there was one other  i don't know maybe six seven dollars you  know like so okay so each  each one is is cheap why do i keep  buying them  because they're not  good enough each one is kind of broken  or or screwed up  i am not gonna spend two hundred dollars  on five i'm not gonna spend four hundred  dollars in batman all right  but i get it  right there are probably all of these  guys have already bought pac-man five  times in their life maybe ten times in  their life and they reach a point where  they say no i'm done i'm done with this  i'm going home  they're gonna spend 400  just to have pac-man to get it to get it  right to get it perfect  and  they're going to be disappointed  because it's not perfect but  it's still a lot perfect  all right  see this is interesting to me though  right  i could sit here and say to you and  maybe you have a brother who who bought  one of these high-end arcade rigs  why would you do this that's totally  irrational you can play pac-man  on your mobile phone for free  or you know okay look around there's so  much here you can play this version of  pac-man for 2.99 something like that you  know you can look around say oh yeah why  would anyone  spend 300  for something they can get on their  mobile phone  for three dollars  and it's the same  all right but that's that's part of what  makes  free market economics so  fascinating as part of what makes  politics so fascinating too okay what's  hypothetically  rational  is very different  from what is  empirically  actual all right and we are dealing with  a wildly irrational  segment  of the free market  so  um  i just bought my daughter  ever kate  okay so if you don't know the arcade you  don't need google okay okay  the evercade  is a brand new console  you can google right now  ever cade screen resolution oh gee that  that's really low  now you can google  nintendo ds  screen resolution that's from 2011  dsi i guess 2011.  now you can google  ps vita  screen resolution that's 2011. it's more  than 10 years ago now why don't you  google something like like google pixel  cellular phone screen resolution  it is blindingly obvious  how overpriced this is the hardware is  overpriced the software is overpriced  why would anyone  buy for themselves  or buy for their daughter  something so wildly irrational there are  so many ways to play pac-man there's so  many ways to play any of these retro  games why would anyone  do something so stupid and sorry just  real quick there were comparisons to be  made here right  why would you buy the evergreen let's  say in total  hardware and software you're talking  about 200 us dollars  being spent on the uppercase my point  being you buy a bunch of cartridges for  it as well as the base yeah okay okay  what can you get from ann burneck  for 200 us dollars  ever make that comparison and include  the screen resolution like the hardware  as well as the software  all right  it's insane  there's no argument for it it's  completely irrational and anyone in  their right mind 10 years ago could have  looked at any of these market segments  and say  oh there's no way that'll work  there's no way the ever cade will be a  success that's irrational nobody would  buy that  and today we're in a position to say  empirically  you were wrong it's a big hit right  i can repeat myself arcade one up 10  years ago you could have said there's no  market for this either it's going to be  a total failure or this is going to be a  tiny niche market you were wrong it's a  big success ii arcade anyone could have  said this can be a tiny niche market  it's going to be a complete failure and  we can keep going  super nintendo mini  sega genesis mini  pc engine mini  this was a sensation that took the world  by storm neo geo mini  all totally technologically redundant  like total total waste of money  objectively  rationally speaking i'm not  running out of examples so in that  context  in that context of the last 10 years  this comes back to the title of this  video  you can't say to me  there's no way  tommy talarico's in television could  have been a success there's no way it  could have worked  it could have been a success  it could have worked  the problem is precisely  tommy teleriko was the wrong man for the  job tommy telerico made the wrong  decisions at pretty much every fork in  the road at pretty much every step  and stage of this story  let's see you have to say  you've been through this crazy story  with me  and  you know i like tommy talarico i really  enjoyed my interview with him melissa  was there she's one of the only  witnesses this tommy talarico  is my favorite vegan  in the video game industry  uh he's he might be my favorite vegan  music composer dude one of don't have a  long list uh tommy talarico moby you  know whatever  yeah yeah yeah yeah and  you know there are aspects of the  project  i sympathize with and i think that's why  you set up the interview with me was  that he knew i was a parent who really  disliked what nintendo was doing  i was a parent who was interested in a  console that would have some educational  software on it which  as with many of tommy's promises or to  have you know seemed to seem to fade  you know  um  there were a lot of different elements  of it that i sympathize with but you  know he never he never hooked me in i  never pre-ordered this thing i never  invested in this thing i never thought  it would be a success  and the the bad decisions he made i mean  some of them are so obvious  uh the type of controller  huge liability it's just wrong  and you can't change you know you can't  change your mind about that like  if that's how you started with this  thing on the drawing board  you can't see  that the whole market for your console  is being created by the promise  that you have earthworm gym for you have  toe jam and a roll  whatever we're up to toe jamming roll 5.  yeah  yeah i could say that  i paid for the like well  that's right yeah  i contributed to the kickstarter  campaign for the newest tokyo game yeah  because for me token role was a  childhood memory  i wanted to play another tokyo game  and unfortunately uh i was disappointed  by the game and  just a conversation that we had a couple  weeks ago about it  um  you know it calls into question the  whole kickstart remodel for  video game concepts for uh console  systems if so  this was just something that we were  talking about and um you know i'm  thinking about it in this in this regard  too with the television and with the uh  amico  um  you know at what point is it a problem  with  hyping up too much um  and not actually funding anything uh  sorry i'm not praising this very well  sorry it's it's uh it's late but  you know i'm just thinking of some of  the parallels between those two projects  obviously they weren't making a new  system right  it's just software yeah and a lot of  people were disappointed with the game  but when you're actually making  you know a new console uh i mean it's a  retro console but still it's like  another level of um  you know things that you have to deliver  on to  donate to the project right and um you  know  the funding up front  um seems to be an issue with a lot of  these yes  a lot of these  start campaigns or yeah so  let me expand a little bit so some of  you guys have never heard of the ouya  but again it's this is even interesting  to me  politically so i i am a political leader  in my own way i have engaged in  fundraising i raised two thousand  dollars in donations this year several  years ago i did a fundraiser and i  raised six thousand five hundred six  thousand three hundred i think uh us  dollars you know so i've  i've been very successful in doing  fundraising on my own small scale given  my own position of privilege frankly  um  okay  what if  the ouya  had been promoted  in a way that was clinically accurate  what if there had been no hype what if  there had been no puffery what if people  have been told really honestly  this is what it is this is what you're  gonna get this is what's going to do you  know now  you know  i don't think they would have sold  200 000 units right like what percentage  of the sales of 200 000 were leveraged  by gross exaggeration by hype by puffery  i don't know  but like  even if they had sold 100 000 units  but they had a user base of 100 000  happy customers  who really felt hey i got what i paid  for this is a good product at a good  price i knew what i was getting myself  into i knew it was going to be able to  do this this and this and there was this  software this is always good you know  this is how the next five years of the  products lifespan was going to go and so  on this was but you know what i'm saying  like  we have this great idiom in american  english unsafe at any size well you know  what you can also be safe at any size  you know you can be successful at any  size you know you can have a very  successful product  that's small you can have a very  successful  political movement  that's small you see where i'm going  this but it's got to be on the basis of  radical honesty  like really unexpected deep cutting  honesty where you're telling people  truths they never thought they'd they'd  be told you know you're really letting  people know  what it is what you're all doing and you  know i think the opposite perspective  ultimately in american culture in the  american experience it comes out of  religion  all political discourse united states  america even going back to 1776 the  revolution and so on all of it has been  formed and informed by  religious discourse by  the uniquely american form of  protestant christianity and the role of  the preacher  and  you know what does the preacher tell you  uh you know  you may suffer on this earth for a short  time but you know  heaven  in the afterlife after you die it's the  original puffery i mean the the church  preacher is the original hype man and  preaching to the choir  this is the original showmanship you  know this is the original you know kind  of musician's role like i described for  for tommy talarico before  and you know  the vast majority of people who go into  politics  and a lot of the people who go into  business  they have that religious mentality they  have that preacher's  mentality where you know they're  promising you something that the product  can't possibly  deliver on and they don't see that  they're setting themselves up for  failure they think they're creating  success they're creating hype and then  again there's this sense of spontaneous  creativity like you bring these things  together and then let it let it happen  as if it's going to emerge and worry  about the details later as opposed to  the grim realism of saying  the grim realism  of saying no no no  details up front details first  like from a hardware perspective all  this is for the customer is a list of  specifications clinical  accuracy in terms of software that you  know like really show people really  share with people what it is and then  they get to decide is this worth a  hundred dollars is this worth 200 is it  for 400 house  and we live in a world where pac-man  and pac-man alone is worth 400 to people  so you can't sell it short you can't  underestimate you can't pretend there'd  be no  market for that my point being  an honestly marketed ooya and an even an  honestly marketed  in television amigo it would have it  would have a market it could be  successful but again with this caveat  successful in any size you know and by  the way the the feedback  tommy talarico got from day one  was exactly the feedback he needed and  basically what people told him was  it should look like the ii arcade it  should look like our keyboard up people  said right away was oh that's not what i  want i want a classic arcade joystick  they don't want this you know finicky  controller with a touch that's not what  they want  what because that's who the market is  like you know all kinds of feedback you  go right she brushed away dismissed  right then on the other hand there were  people telling him hey i want this to be  like  the super nintendo mini which is a mass  market i want this to be like the  genesis mini uh you could fill in the  blank with anything and then mini i want  this to be like the pc engine mini and  there were people saying you know they  hadn't seen the the ever cade yet but  they're saying oh i want this to be  something like the ever gate like this  should be for the intellivision what the  ever kid was you know and then branch  off from there there were people with  all kinds of different visions  about what this thing should be and  every single one of those was more  viable than tommy talarico's vision so  you know  i criticize all kinds of political  movements i go after them really hard  uh and one of the things tommy talarico  liked about me is that i'm vegan but i'm  not too left-wing  you know if you want to know about  tommy's politics  uh  his twitter history  and his twitter contacts and his  friendship with uh tenepal the guy who  created earth you get enough hints of  where he stands politically he  he was very happy to talk to me because  i was a vegan and i was not too  left-wing  you know  i  am morally opposed  to police brutality  i'm also opposed to black lives matter  all right i think black lives matter is  a bad movement now  i think it always has been  if you go back to my very first video  criticizing black lives matter what did  i do  i went to their constitution  and i read  what exactly  are they promising  all right  i think you could have a wonderful  movement that was really all about  improving  police services in america improving the  quality and quantity of policing  immigration everyone put this improving  police procedure improving police  accountability reducing va you could  have a wonderful movement that does that  did you read their constitution that's  not what they promised in their  constitution they promised they were  going to demolish  the nuclear family they were going to  end the existence  of the family  as we know it  and replace it  with a system of  marxist slash anarchist  a cephalos communities like you can get  into the left-wing jargon about what  this means they were going to replace  the family with their new model  of a community where there were in which  there were no parents and in a sense no  children the children don't belong to  anyone that's what the constitution  promised  when you donated to black lives matter  did you know that's what you were  donating to  let me ask a lot of years have gone by  i'm sorry but now i record that video  when i was still in in china  um that's so it must be five years now  about five years ago i made that and you  know i don't know their constitution was  at least a few months before that i  don't know it was around for a year or  something before i made that take so  we're going back five or six years  um  what what's made more progress in the  last five years the black lives matter  utopian project of creating communities  in which there's no nuclear family or  tommy teleriko's  video game console and everyone's like  you know look at what they're promising  you know and again it's not even that  they're necessarily promising more or  too much  you're promising the wrong thing your  promises in the mix that makes no sense  okay i could go on about black lives  matter for an hour i'm not going to i  think this one example alone  you know  imagine if instead  the leaders of black lives matter had a  well-defined well-disciplined legal fund  and they said look here's our agenda  we're going to employ a team of just 10  lawyers in one office  in the lowest rent neighborhood of  louisiana you know and we are going to  fight a whole series of legal cases and  here's the list and here's what we're  fighting for and here are our proposals  and we want in all 50 states to have  these resolutions in state law and maybe  we want this  new federal law passed to improve like  you could have had a completely you know  in my terms brass tax set of proposals  for police reform that would have  benefited black people would have  benefited white people and would have  benefited police officers too right but  that's not what you got what you got  were insane marxists you know and there  they're a mix of marxist and anarchists  there's some anarchist elements to what  they're doing it's not pure marxism so  to speak um  [Music]  you know  the the problem with black lives matter  is not grassroots it's it's from the top  down it's in terms of food leaders where  it's terms of their original design  yes  another problem is what happened to the  money they had millions of dollars yes  highly motivated to  donate to spread the word about it  the most important  i think i think 90 million dollars is  the estimate i could get the money but  it's a huge amount of money we had going  going  you know people not caring about it and  it certainly wasn't an issue about  people not donating to  the  organization you know so  it's just a  where did the money where did the money  go  yes yeah no no no i believe i mean maybe  i'm wrong but currently  it seems we will never know where that  money went we will never get a breakdown  of what happened to the money that was  done into black lives matter and there  have been some specific scandals some of  which i've covered on my channel with  specific little fractions  of the of the many many millions of  dollars you're talking about but it's  true people are asking this now about  tommy talarico's project because there  were several million dollars involved  and what what was the money spent on how  was it that so many millions of dollars  were spent and there's so little to to  show for it very different when it said  what it's adventure but  in theory we could find out what  happened with the accounting of  uh the television we will never know  that's a huge huge question uh for uh  and but you know right why is it the  case because it's an organization we'll  it's insane and look you know by the way  guys i'm vegan tommy talarico is vegan  you know  it's been mentioned in this video but  like dude i'm on here all the time  saying there are these vegan  organizations there are these animal  rights organizations they take in  millions of dollars and it's com there's  no accountability for where that money  goes or what there is to show for it the  money the money just disappears so you  know i i again i've done so little  fundraising that's very easy for me to  be accountable with the money i i've uh  i've raised that what i spend it on i'm  able to show people and i've mentioned  the example before when i printed  t-shirts and sent them to my fans i just  i literally photographed myself holding  up the receipts for each package sent in  the mail you know i was able to be  accountable for every dollar spent on  those on those projects  um  [Music]  but yeah this is another really sad and  sickening aspect of of american culture  and in the business world in a sense  it's even more permissive because people  go into this with the assumption that no  matter how much money they put in as an  investor they're going to make even more  back so who wants to question the salary  of tommy teleriko which is now a cause  of embarrassment how much money he was  making every year when nothing was being  produced and so on you know well now  those questions get asked and now it's  just embarrassing but as long as people  are making making more money back than  they're putting into it they're inclined  not to ask those questions at all and  look the american attitudes towards  charity i have no i just have no  comprehension of of why it is people  give away millions of dollars i i mean  it must ultimately be based on a  supernatural belief that their  generosity will be rewarded in heaven or  something it must be  because you talk about sorry earlier i  was talking about the difference between  what's rational and what's empirically  actual you know it's it's wildly  irrational the way people donate to  political parties political causes  charities of any kind and they just  don't care about any of the outcomes  where does the money go what was  accomplished by it you know and  yeah you can say it's irrational but  then look at it empirically look at the  reality a lot of the times what people  are going into is a more nebulous  concept of what is virtuous what is the  ideology they care about so in this  sense they think well i don't need to uh  investigate i need to inspect this  because i'm i'm giving them money in  order to  promote a cause so it's  not as well but i think that's exactly  how investment works too you and i have  both heard this even the discourse about  things like bitcoin we get this highly  moralizing pseudo-religious  all these statements about values and  beliefs when it's supposed to be about  business  so i was gonna use one more example  uh here in canada one of the movements i  really like to pillory  excoriate criticize harshly in plain  english um  is so-called nation rising  so you know nation rising their original  slogan was  it's not a protest  it's a revolution  and i tried to get in touch with them  again and again and say well look  what do you mean it's not a protest  the only thing you're showing me like  the only thing you're organizing is a  once a year an annual  protest it seems you have no activities  you have no  your slogan is it's it's not a protest  it's a revolution where's the revolution  and more broadly  where are you doing anything other than  a protest  you're collecting all these donations  and you're organizing all these groups  and you're asking all these people to  spend their own money and spend their  own time and volunteer  and again like  oh sorry one guy i've got to give him  credit there was one guy who had first  responded in a really kind of negative  and kind of like jealous way to my  criticism  and then just a few days later he  completely flipped and became  appreciative and he sent me some emails  saying hey look man you really opened my  eyes i really appreciate that that i  thought these things through because you  remember one guy at first he wrote back  really negatively  and uh you know kind of how dare you ask  these questions this this kind of thing  and then i remember he  kind of hit a breaking point  when he just sent me a message he said  you're right  it's a protest  [Music]  and then after that a couple days later  or a couple weeks later i forget he  wrote to me saying  you know thank you for taking the time  to reply to me and thank you for making  these youtube videos because it really  led him to let into question you know  what what's uh what it's all about  um  we have we have a comment coming in  saying i can't wait to be able to read  no more manifestos so i have another  book coming out first so we have two  books coming out in close succession  yeah i'm almost finished uh future of an  illusion so you're gonna have future of  an illusion first that's a relatively  short book that's and that's easy for me  to write to and then we get uh the final  text of no more manifestos which is  indeed taking me a long time i didn't  accept any donations for the books  i'm not blowing my dead  anyway thanks and thanks for the i can  take the compliment thanks i'm glad  you're looking forward to reading my  book when it comes out uh for me it's  i i hope it's the last book i've read  about politics maybe not maybe 10 years  now 20 years  for me it's really the culmination of  decades and decades of caring and  reading and thinking about politics so  it's uh  yeah  um a lot of sorrow and a lot of wisdom  and equal parts of foolishness have gone  into this book  many decades of of making mistakes i've  gotten this book anyway look when i  complain about a political movement like  nation rising  quote unquote it's not a protest that's  a revolution when i complain about black  lives matter promising to abolish the  family and create these new communes and  all this they're going to restructure  society and all these crazy goals they  have okay well i want to ask the same  question i asked before about the ouya  you know it's video game console what if  you had been radically honest like you  know  jarringly honest you know stupefyingly  honest what have you been way more  honest than anyone ever expect you to be  maybe you could have sold 100 000  consoles it would like the same console  but you would have actually had  happy customers you would have had  people getting involved in committing to  this project whether they were software  developers or customers who really knew  what they were buying and knew what they  were committing to now even with  something as simple as the promises made  by nation rising but with many of these  vegan groups i knew this hypothetically  and then i met and talked to people face  to face who went through this uh  actually she talked about young people  who have a crappy job working at  starbucks or they work in the warehouse  at walmart or sign they're working a  minimum wage job  and they saved up their money  for months  to take a flight  to ottawa canada and stay in a hotel  and attend your revolution  and guess what there's no revolution  it's just a protest it's big money  the the same amount of money you could  have taken a vacation in egypt and seen  the pyramids he could have taken a  vacation in thailand and i don't know  seen whatever there is to see in  thailand um you could have done all  kinds of things that would have changed  your life forever  positively and instead you made a  promise to these people you were engaged  in puffery you over hyped this thing you  promised something you couldn't deliver  and you know again one guy in particular  i talked to him at length he was himself  an organizer he was a really committed  well moderately committed vegan activist  he'd organized things say okay so you  spent all this time and all this money  to go to this thing and when you get  there  it's like 15 losers you know standing  around in a coffee shop having a chit  chat and that's what you bought the  airplane ticket for and that's what you  booked the  hotel room for like my point is even at  that level  of political organization you have to be  radically  honest with people like really you know  way more honest than they're expecting  you to be and i think you have to demand  that kind of honesty  you know in in return  so yeah um i want to come back to the  late mode if i open this  video with  and guys  you have to think about this in your own  lives too  tommy talarico  was a musician  who surrounded himself with computer  programmers  two very different types of talent to  very different types of personality and  for middle-aged men  you live in that loop for a few years  you're just a coder you're just a  computer programmer or you're just a  musician it reinforces  certain types of attitudes and certain  types of  behaviors right if you weren't a weirdo  when you first became a musician do it  for 30 years now you're a weirdo and  you're a very different kind of weirdo  being a being a computer programmer by  the way guys i write about this in my  book my forthcoming book no more  manifestos if you think about your own  parents  you think about your own grandparents  maybe they would have been better people  if they didn't do the same job  every day of their lives for so many  years no matter what that job was like  whether it was a job that was  denigrating in an obvious way or even  you know i remember my grandmother  saying to me how much she hated being a  dentist  it's considered a good job  we'll do it every day for 30 40 years  and you can learn to hate it you know  every day the you know  you know  the the self-reinforcing aspects of that  of living that you know and look my  father was a terrible person terrible  person  but i have wondered that how much better  a person could he have been  if he had worked five or six different  jobs you know if he had some more  diversity of experience in his life that  way instead of  having success at this relatively early  age and then doing exactly the same job  sitting down at the same desk  you know living in the same loop again  and again and again for for so many  years i think that's a really difficult  question for all of us to examine okay  well you know what the thing is about  computer programmers  computer programmers  cannot understand  anything  other than  computer programming i've a lot of my  fans are computer programmers you're  [ __ ] terrible people okay a lot of my  top donors my top supporters on patreon  are computer programmers you're all  terrible people all of you and you know  a lot of them they're the guys whatever  they they donate a few bucks a month or  they donate right now during these live  streams or something and they want to  ask me these difficult questions about  politics and they can't really deal with  the answers and they can't really think  it through they can't really even have a  conversation about politics you see just  how limited they are in coping with  anything outside of their box in terms  of politics and you know what yeah  exactly so we got people in the audience  right now  and look  if you're struggling against those  limitations maybe you can maybe you can  overcome them maybe you can compensate  but dude  we have yet to enter the phase of  history when computer programmers take  over our government right but i shudder  to think of it there was a time in  history when what everyone was afraid of  was military leaders  taking over the government okay so you  know what guys in the military they have  a lot of  people skills  that computer programmers lack okay if  you've been through the military for 10  20 years  you know how to work with people who are  mentally disabled  not an exaggeration you know how to work  with people who are really smart you  know to work with people who are really  macho you know how to work with people  who are really weak and really cowardly  you know how to work with a whole lot of  different people  including a lot of the poorest and most  disadvantaged people in our society  by the way i won't digress into it i  read a whole book that was just dealing  with mentally disabled people in the us  army it's a real phenomenon there were  mentally disabled people in the us army  today but over the last decades there's  been a whole policy of this of including  and employing you know literally  mentally [ __ ] people in the army you  have all kinds of experience and if  you've been in the army you have  experienced following orders you've  experienced giving orders you have  experience  having a boardroom meeting in front of a  chalkboard when you explain something to  people and you do questions  think about all the advantages an old  military man has  over a computer programmer  okay and the the kind of connection to  social reality you're in the military  you know what it's like to go hungry  right you know what it's like to deal  with scarcity you know it's like to deal  with poverty of of different kinds going  just kind of battlefield scarcity you  know and probably in the military today  you might have experienced traveling in  africa traveling throughout you know  iraq iran afghanistan seeing some of the  poorest and most disadvantaged places in  the united states of america i remember  passing military bases uh out in navajo  country in the middle of the great  desert you know i feel like you know you  might have you actually a career  military officer today has a lot to  offer in the united political leadership  in the united states america everyone's  afraid of it everyone thinks this is you  know somehow worse than having a  multi-millionaire lawyer be a political  leader right you know what in a lot of  ways career military guys they even have  advantages over a waitress like  alexandria ocasio-cortez you know what i  mean  i shudder to think what's going to  happen if or when the um  if or when the the computer programmers  instead become the people in government  so you got one type of people  computer programmers can't handle  anything but computer programming then  you've got another type of person who's  a musician who's a showman  right  and he can't handle the economics  he cannot handle the business planning  he cannot handle the strategy  you know what um  [Music]  [Laughter]  a lot of you guys  presume  i should be in a leadership role right  just because i talk a good game  you know  when you're comparing me to aaron janus  it seems like i should be in a  leadership role when you're comparing me  to james aspy  when you're comparing me to brian turner  you know yeah i admit you know but you  know what  i've never once had someone write into  me i've never once had someone  communicate me where they felt that they  should be the person  in the leadership role i've never had  someone write to me and say hey look  look kid you've got talent  you need to be working for me  you need to be working for my  opportunity never and i have people  write into me at least every month maybe  every couple of weeks some of you if  you're on patreon you've seen this i  have people writing into me and they're  asking to be my employees  they're asking for my leadership  politically but even like professional  like for me to be running some kind of  institution or company or something that  can employ them  i like  tommy talarico  you know and and it may not show  but i'm the creative artist type 2. i'm  a creative writer  type and a lot of what i'm doing right  now  is creative writing and you know what  there's actually a really good argument  that i shouldn't be running a business i  shouldn't be doing the actuarial science  you know what i'm saying i shouldn't be  doing the math  and i shouldn't be doing the leadership  either and maybe the reason why i talk  such a good game is that i'm good at  asking the right questions  and maybe i shouldn't be in the  executive role  of giving the answers now i say all this  and i'm aware like if the only choice  you've got is between me being in the  leadership role and durian writer it's  between me and freely me and her like i  get it talent is scarce and i may be the  best you've got i get it  you know  but my point is um  [Music]  the mistake  tommy talarico made in thinking of this  like a musician organizing a band  i think a lot of us make very similar  mistakes whether we're organizing a  political movement whether we're  organizing  some kind of enterprise that maybe you  know you're trying to make a short film  and  maybe the most fundamental question of  all is  who is in charge here  and why  how  how  did the music director  from earthworm gym  end up being ceo of this company  the music director  should not be the ceo of this guy it's  so obvious once you take a step back  right  right  he was a music director and then he  basically was like a kind of  game show host he was a talk show host  for electronic playground you know  that's  that's his background so you can already  think of a very positive role he could  play  in this kind of company but who is going  to be  the ceo who is going to be doing the  actuarial science who is going to be  making the hard decisions about hardware  who's going to make the hard decisions  to include multi-million dollar  investments in software so developing  software costs money all right and you  pay the money now and then the software  is done like two years later you know  like you're talking about not even aaa  games triple c games whatever you know  these these are these are big decisions  ah okay  so now we're talking about organizing a  team  we're talking about organizing a team of  talented people  and we're starting to think about what  talents they've got and what they should  be responsible for  and what  they should be  in charge of  i'm saying this i'm neither boasting nor  am i you know uh humiliating myself or  something right i think probably none of  you have ever looked at me  this way  you know you've probably never looked at  me and never looked at yourself and  thought well what talent have i got and  you know what talent has this guy got  but like the fact that i have this  talent  right now  it's a lot like tommy talarico  being able to come on stage and play the  guitar and being able to come on camera  and do a talk show electric playground  was his most famous show you know that's  that's what he can do  right but you've got to put together a  whole team  you've got to put together a whole  strategy if you want to have a  successful enterprise even if it's just  in business  let alone if what you want  in politics  is to change the world